The Constitution of Chico State Linux User Group

September 3, 2010

Article I. Name
1. This organization shall be the Linux User Group of California State
   University, Chico, hereafter referred to as CSLUG.

Article II. Purposes
1. The purpose of CSLUG is to promote, discuss, and educate people about the
   Linux operating system in all environments and areas.

Article III. Membership
1. Qualifications of Members
  a) Any member of CSLUG must have an interest in Linux and/or other operating
     systems that serve as alternatives to products sold by Microsoft
     Corporation, and which bear some similarity to the UNIX operating system.
  b) All persons who wish to maintain membership in CSLUG must join the
     official CSLUG mailing list. The email address used must be valid and the
     email must be regularly checked by the CSLUG member.
  c) Any person not registered as a student at CSU Chico shall, if so desired,
     be considered an associate member of CSLUG if they pass all other
     membership requirements and have attended at least one CSLUG meeting.
     Associate members are not eligible to vote in CSLUG elections or hold
     official office; however, they may participate in CSLUG events and are
     encouraged to participate in all other CSLUG business as allowed by the
     CSLUG officers. The CSLUG officers retain the right to limit or withdraw
     the privileges of associate members at any time.
2. Assessments and Dues
  a) There are no assessments or dues required to join or maintain membership
     in CSLUG. This does not in any way limit the right of CSLUG to charge a
     reasonable fee to participants for special events where CSLUG would
     otherwise incur a financial burden.
3. Membership Termination
  a) Membership of any CSLUG member may be terminated by 2/3 vote of the other
     members of CSLUG. A vote to terminate a member must be anonymous and must
     be taken at a regularly scheduled meeting set forth by the CSLUG
     President. A notice of membership termination must be posted to the club
     mailing list within 24 hours of the vote stating who is going to be
     terminated, the effective date of the termination, and a clear statement
     of the reason for termination.

Article IV. Membership
1. Criteria for holding an Officer Position
  a) All officers must be regularly enrolled students in good standing at CSU
     Chico taking no less than 6 credit hours of course work during the
     semester coinciding with their official position.
2. Election and Removal of Officers
  a) Officers shall be elected by a simple majority vote of the CSLUG members
     present at the last month's meeting of each spring semester.
  b) The term of office for each position is one full school year.
  c) There is no limit on the number of semesters a single individual may hold
     an official position in CSLUG, provided that the individual is duly
     re-elected to the position each election period.
  d) Any officer may be removed by a 2/3 vote of CSLUG members. The date of a
     vote for removal shall be determined by the Faculty Advisor or by a simple
     majority of the club officers.
  e) Elected positions in CSLUG are President, Vice President, Webmaster, and
     Treasurer.
3. Duties and Responsibilities
  a) The President shall provide and oversee all meetings and events. The
     President shall represent CSLUG to the University and to the other
     businesses and corporations, as well as be responsible for room
     reservations and event planning, including hardware and software needs,
     food and drink, et cetera, with the assistance of the Vice President and
     Treasurer.
  b) The Vice President shall assist the President in the performance of
     official duties as directed by the President. Should the President become
     unable to continue to serve in that role, the Vice President shall assume
     the position of President subject to ratification by a simple majority of
     CSLUG members. Should the ratification fail to obtain a simple majority, a
     special Presidential election shall be held at the next regularly
     scheduled CSLUG meeting. The Vice President shall preside over any
     meeting or event where the President is unable to attend.
  c) The Treasurer is responsible for maintaining records of all financial
     transactions for CSLUG, including but not limited to the collection and
     dispersement of club funds as authorized by a simple majority of club
     officers, as well as organizing fundraisers for the club. The Treasurer
     shall provide a summary of the club accounts at each regular club meeting
     and upon the request of the President.
  d) The Webmaster is responsible for maintaining and updating the
     official CSLUG website with news, minutes, and announcements, including
     any forums, wikis, et cetera. The maintenance and updating of the mailing
     list also falls under the Webmaster's responsibility.
4. Committees
  a) The officers may set up ad-hoc committees for any purpose deemed necessary
     for the operation of CSLUG. Committees can be recommended by any member of
     CSLUG and require only a simple majority vote of the officers in
     attendance at the meeting where the committee was suggested. Details on
     any committees shall be recorded by the Webmaster for publication on the
     CSLUG website.

ARTICLE V. Meetings
1. Meetings shall be held once a week during fall and spring semesters. Meeting
   times shall occur between 5:30pm and 6:30pm and shall last 1 hour unless
   otherwise stated in pre-meeting emails or notices. The time, date, and
   frequency of meetings may be altered by a 2/3 majority of regular CSLUG
   members.
2. Special meetings may be called by a 2/3 vote of the Officers or reasons
   involving CSLUG business. Special meetings shall only be held on regular
   school days. Special meetings shall not be held on holidays or breaks.

ARTICLE VI. Financial Process
1. The expenditure of funds shall be decided by a simple majority vote of CSLUG
   members present at a regular scheduled club meeting.
2. The President may authorize expenditures up to $50.00 in a 30-day period.
   Expenditures exceeding this amount require the approval of the Faculty
   Advisor plus a simple majority of CSLUG members. Votes pertaining to
   expenditures shall be sent to the Treasurer via email by midnight of the
   deadline. The Treasurer shall acknowledge all email votes by responding via
   email.

ARTICLE VII. Advisor
1. A faculty or staff advisor shall be selected or removed by a 2/3 vote of
   club members. Votes for the removal of a faculty member shall be counted by
   the President and Vice President. Removal of a Faculty Advisor must be
   accompanied by an official document detailing the reasons for the removal of
   the advisor. The document must also include a listing detailing the exact
   voting breakdown. This document must be signed by 2/3 of the CSLUG officers
   to be considered binding.

ARTICLE VIII. Amendment Process
1. This constitution may be amended by a 2/3 vote of club members.
2. Any member of the club may submit an amendment for consideration.
3. Any votes for amendment of the constitution must be preceded by no less than
   15 day notices sent via email to all CSLUG members as well as on the club
   website.
4. Amendments must be submitted to the President and Faculty Advisor in writing
   and must be signed by the submitter.
5. The President shall set forth a voting date within one month of the
   submission of an amendment unless an extension is granted by a simple
   majority of CSLUG members present at a regularly scheduled CSLUG meeting.

ARTICLE IX. Disbursal of Assets
1. Dissolving of CSLUG shall occur if there is no elected President for a
   period of four years.
2. Upon dissolving of CSLUG, all monetary assets of CSLUG shall be donated in
   even amounts to the CSU Chico ACM and UPE clubs.
